Add support for slat-based WMS covers like venetian blinds (#43352)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/wmspro.markdown

The **WMS WebControl pro** {% term integration %} allows you to integrate WAREMA devices into Home Assistant.

This integration uses a local API which is available since firmware container version 11H.

See device section for support information: [buttons](#buttons), [covers](#covers), [lights](#lights),

> [numbers](#numbers), [scenes](#scenes) and [switches](#switches).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[numbers](#numbers), [scenes](#scenes), and [switches](#switches).
```

The **WMS WebControl pro** {% term integration %} allows you to integrate WAREMA devices into Home Assistant.

This integration uses a local API which is available since firmware container version 11H.

See device section for support information: [buttons](#buttons), [covers](#covers), [lights](#lights),
[numbers](#numbers), [scenes](#scenes), and [switches](#switches).

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

The WMS WebControl pro *may* also be discovered on your local network via DHCP.

## Buttons

> - All devices that support an identification activity (for example, winking an awning or blinking a light) can be triggered to perform such activity.

Author: lol, this is the complete opposite of what was previously requested. Closing.

## Covers

- *Awnings*, *volant awnings* (vertical drop sun shades), and *roller shutters/blinds* can be opened, closed, set to a certain position, and stopped.
- *Slat-based blinds* can additionally have their slats rotated open, closed, or to a specific rotation angle.

### Rotation support

> Home Assistant treats the slat rotation as a linear scale from fully open to fully closed. The integration uses the maximum rotation angle as the fully closed position, but the minimum (opposite) angle is not treated as fully open. Instead when you set the slats to the open position in Home Assistant, they move to the position where the slats are parallel to the ground as expected. You can change the minimum and maximum rotation angles via configuration [number](#numbers) entities or [automatic learning](#automatic-learning).

Author: lol, this is the complete opposite of what was previously requested. Closing.

> Home Assistant treats the slat rotation as a linear scale from fully open to fully closed. The integration uses the maximum rotation angle as the fully closed position, but the minimum (opposite) angle is not treated as fully open. Instead when you set the slats to the open position in Home Assistant, they move to the position where the slats are parallel to the ground as expected. You can change the minimum and maximum rotation angles via configuration [number](#numbers) entities or [automatic learning](#automatic-learning).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Home Assistant treats the slat rotation as a linear scale from fully open to fully closed. The integration uses the maximum rotation angle as the fully closed position, but the minimum end position is not treated as fully open. Instead, when you set the slats to the open position in Home Assistant, they move to the position where the slats are parallel to the ground as expected. You can change the minimum and maximum rotation angles via configuration [number](#numbers) entities or [automatic learning](#automatic-learning).
```
what is meant by opposite angle?

Author: Rotation angle, not position

## Lights

- Dimmers (with brightness control) and switches are fully supported.

## Numbers

> - *Slat-based blinds* will have configuration entities to overwrite the minimum and maximum rotation angle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- *Slat-based blinds* have configuration entities to overwrite the minimum and maximum rotation angle.
```

  This is required as the WMS WebControl pro currently reports invalid minimum and maximum rotation values.
- *Slat-drives supporting rotation* also have a diagnostic entity to control the raw rotation angle.
  This is especially useful for *slat-based roofs* which currently have no other way to be controlled.

> - *Slat-based covers* like roofs that only have rotation, but not position control, will only have this entity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- *Slat-based covers* like roofs that only have rotation, but not position control, only have this entity.
```

>   In that case this raw rotation number entity will not be marked as diagnostic entity, but as main entity instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   For covers with rotation only, this entity appears as the main control.
```
That sounds a bit technical. Would this be accurate?

### Automatic learning

> The number entities persist across Home Assistant restarts. They are updated automatically on slat rotation to allow automatic learning of the valid rotation range based on the current rotation angle. For learning, it is sufficient to rotate *slat-based blinds* to both end positions while Home Assistant is connected and waiting until the position was updated.

Author: lol, this is the complete opposite of what was previously requested. Closing.

> The number entities persist across Home Assistant restarts. They are updated automatically on slat rotation to allow automatic learning of the valid rotation range based on the current rotation angle. For learning, it is sufficient to rotate *slat-based blinds* to both end positions while Home Assistant is connected and waiting until the position was updated.

Author: Fixed, thanks.

## Covers

- *Awnings*, *volant awnings* (vertical drop sun shades), and *roller shutters/blinds* can be opened, closed, set to a certain position, and stopped.
- *Slat-based blinds* can additionally have their slats rotated open, closed, or to a specific rotation angle.

> ### Rotation Support

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Rotation support
```
We use [sentence-style capitalization](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/capitalization).

Home Assistant treats the slat rotation as a linear scale from fully open to fully closed. The integration
uses the maximum rotation angle as the fully closed position, but the minimum (reverse) angle is not treated
as fully open. When you set the slats to the open position in Home Assistant, they move to the position
where the slats are parallel to the ground as expected. You can change the minimum and maximum rotation
angles via configuration [number](#numbers) entities or [automatic learning](#automatic-learning).

## Lights

- Dimmers (with brightness control) and switches are fully supported.

## Numbers

- *Slat-based blinds* will have configuration entities to overwrite the minimum and maximum rotation angle.
  This is required as the WMS WebControl pro currently reports invalid minimum and maximum rotation values.
- *Slat-drives supporting rotation* will also have a diagnostic entity to control the raw rotation angle.
  This is especially useful for *slat-based roofs* which currently have no other way to be controlled.

> ### Automatic Learning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Automatic learning
```

> The number entities persist across Home Assistant restarts and are updated automatically on slat rotation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The number entities persist across Home Assistant restarts. They are updated automatically on slat rotation
```
